[Music]
hello
good morning to you welcome to breakfast
with dan walker and louise minchin
headlines for you at six o'clock this
morning
captain sir tom moore has been admitted
to hospital with coronavirus the prime
minister is among the many people who've
wished him well
his family say captain tom was brought
here to bedford hospital yesterday for
additional help with his breathing
it's important to say he's being treated
on a ward and is not
in intensive care all care homes
residents in england have now been
offered a vaccine it's being held as an
important milestone
the military in myanmar have staged coup
and arrested and sang tsuchi and other
political leaders
good morning will any of us be jetting
off for a holiday this summer
after 12 months of cancellations refunds
and travel
chaos we'll get an update from ryanair
the low-cost airline has its results out
in the next few minutes
i'll speak to boss michael o'leary in
the next hour
it is asala spectacular he scores two
great goals as liverpool win at west ham
to get their title defence back
on track good morning it's a cloudy
misty murky start to the day
across southern england and wales for
northern ireland we've got some rain and
hill snow moving through
and some wintry showers across northern
eastern scotland getting into northeast
england at times but in between
some sunshine i'll have more details
later
[Music]
good morning it's monday it's the 1st of
february and captain sir tom moore has
spent the night in hospital after being
admitted with coronavirus the 100 year
old second world war veteran who raised
tens of millions of pounds for the nhs
during the first lockdown
was admitted yesterday because he needed
help with his breathing
he's not in intensive care breakfast
john mcguire reports
it all started as his way of
it all started as his way of thanking
the nhs for looking after him following
a fall
now captain sir tom moore the
record-breaking fundraiser
is under its care once again he's being
treated for pneumonia and covert 19 at
bedford hospital
in a statement released yesterday
afternoon by one of his daughters
hannah said he was being treated at home
but was taken to hospital
when he needed additional help with his
breathing he's on a ward
and not in intensive care she described
the medical care he's received over the
past few weeks
as remarkable and goes on to say we know
that the wonderful staff at bedford
hospital
will do all they can to make him
comfortable and hopefully
return home as soon as possible this
year of course
we last spoke to him just before
christmas and he was his
usual optimistic self but things will
get better
and next year we'll be all right
captain tom's endeavors walking a
hundred lengths of his back garden
before his 100th birthday last april
saw him raise almost 40 million pounds
for nhs charities
he inspired so many to follow in his
footsteps
and his story was told around the world
now once again people are lining up
to wish him well the prime minister
boris johnson tweeted
you've inspired the whole nation and i
know
we are all wishing you a full recovery
the labour leader
kierstarma wrote you've been an
inspiration to us all throughout this
crisis
when you walk through a storm
[Music]
and the singer michael ball whose duet
with captain tom helped him to break yet
another record
as they made it to number one said stay
strong sir
we are all here for you he is
a huge cricket fan and the former
england captain michael vaughan
sent this message so captain tom over
the last 10 months you've been our
inspiration you've been the
the nation's heartbeat we're all
thinking of you get well soon
and in passing on their best wishes the
nhs charities he helped
reminds us of the difference he's made
we owe him so much for inspiring people
to support
nhs charities the funds that he raised
are making such a difference right now
to nhs staff
volunteers and patients our thoughts are
with him
and his family at this time and we wish
you a speedy recovery captain tom
as the pandemic led to repeated
lockdowns captain tom has
always offered messages of hope and
positivity
reminding us all to walk to talk and to
look after each other
it's now time for us to return the favor
and to look forward
to seeing that smile once again john
mcguire bbc news
bedford and we can speak to john now
live this morning from outside bedford
hospital john there'll be a lot of
people
watching right now and throughout the
morning as well really desperate to know
how he's getting on
yeah absolutely and of course our best
well wishes go along with everyone
else's you can
only imagine the outpouring of support
that captain tom's engendered over the
last 10 months well
i'm sure we'll see that repeated at the
moment he will have just spent his first
night here
at bedford hospital brought in then just
yesterday afternoon and as i say the
crucial thing i think to focus in on
is that he's been treated in a ward and
not
in the intensive care department so we
know of course from the last 10 months
or so
since this pandemic has been upon us
just how
far the nhs has advanced and its
treatment methods
the different types of drugs that it's
managed to adapt to use to introduce
to treat people so outcomes are much
much better than they have
been i think the other thing that's
important to say this morning also is
that captain tom
hasn't had his vaccine he was due
to have his jab in recent weeks but as
the family statement the statement from
hannah ingram or his daughter
said he was unwell over the last few
weeks with pneumonia
so was unable to have his vaccine jab
but
i was thinking you know earlier on this
morning having spent so much time with
captain tom over the last year he is a
wonderful wonderful man to meet
face to face and get them to get to know
if he was here this morning
he'd be giving us a big thumbs up and he
would be reminding us
as always that tomorrow will be a better
day
well let's just hope today is a better
day than he had yesterday
perfect john thank you very much for
that we'll speak to you a bit later on
this morning
the nhs says that every elderly care
home resident in england has now been
offered the coronavirus vaccine
the prime minister has described that as
a crucial milestone it comes as the uk
hit a record daily total of vaccinations
over the weekend
aruna yenga has more
across the uk residents of care homes
are rolling up their sleeves for the
covid vaccine
and this is what it means oh the the day
the vaccine was administered was such
a positive moment you feel a sense of
relief i think that you can
see something positive coming and the
residents were amazing and there's a
real
air of great atmosphere the prime
minister said it marked a crucial
milestone in the race to protect the
most vulnerable
and that the rollout will only
accelerate from here
the head of the nhs simon stevens also
paid tribute to the work of gps
community nurses and care home workers
the government says a few homes have had
visits deferred
due to local outbreaks of the virus but
promises to get these done
as soon as it's safe to do so some
residents also may have been missed
because they were suffering from covid
ministers are growing increasingly
confident of hitting the target of
vaccinating the 15 million most
vulnerable people
by mid-february after a record high of
jabs on saturday
reaching nearly six hundred thousand
nearly nine million
first doses have now been administered
and
nearly nine out of 10 people aged 80 and
above
and over three-quarters of people aged
75 and over
have now had their first jab but the
charity alzheimer's uk
says it's concerned about the level of
staff vaccinations
amid reports that some workers have
declined jabs
it's also calling for the government to
speed up the rollout of the second dose
to allow homes to resume meaningful
visits
in wales around three quarters of staff
and care home residents have received a
vaccine
all homes in northern ireland have now
been visited and the scottish government
said it
expects to complete the first stage of
its rollout
including care homes by the end of this
week
aruna iyenga bbc news
the european commission says the drug
firm astrazeneca will now supply
an additional additional 9 million covid
vaccines by
march commission president ursula
vonderlion said she was a st
it was a step forward but it still means
the eu will only get half of what it had
hoped for
the commission has been involved in a
row with both the uk
and astrazeneca over who gets access to
vaccine supplies
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news